Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. A programing language is a computer language used to make give instructions to a machine or create
programs.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. A JDK means Java Development Kit, it has a JRE, which is a the Java Runtime Environment, Compiler and Debugger.

What is IDE?
A. IDE mean Integrated Development Environment.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse and Intellij

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. Source code is written. The code goes through a compiler. It will get turned in to a class file which than goes
through the JVM and into machine code, which is than outputted to the computer.

what is class?
A. A class is a container which holds the methods and variables.

What is object?
A. Instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
A. The main method

Why main is static?
A. The main is static because, it is called by the JVM before any objects are made. It needs to be called without
having to initialize any objects.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. Java.lang

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables.
classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Interface you can only declare methods. Abstract class you can have abstract methods or non-abstract methods.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. No, you would implement or extends into a concrete class.

what is Access Specifier?
A. An access specifier tells you how much access you have to a method, class, or variable.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. OOP mean Object Oriented Programming.
Encapsulation: data hiding
Polymorphism: many forms of methods
Abstraction: Implementation hiding
Inheritance: Inheriting methods, variables from other classes.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. Java package is where you hold classes that have similar functions. Java.lang

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. API is application program interface. We used BufferedReader, FileReader, Scanner and String.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. No, to avoid ambiguity.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. Method overloading happens when you have same method names but different parameters. Compile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. Exception is when a programs execution is halted. It is handled with a try-catch block.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A.
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
What is final, finally and finalize?
What is a constructor ?
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









