Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A. Data Structure helps to organize raw data.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A. Tranverse, Searching, Adding, Deleting

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A. Database Management, Graphics, Compiler Design, Numerical Analysis

what is an Array?
A. An Array is block memory.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
A. An array is static while arraylist is dynamic.

what is LinkedList?
A. LinkedList is a linear data structure where each element is a separate object.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
A. In an Array, each element is independent, no connection with previous element. In Linked list, location or address
of elements is stored in the link part of previous element/node.

what is queue?
A. A queue is a linear structure which follows a particular order in which the operations are performed.

what is stack?
A. Stack follows Last In First Out (LIFO). Therefore last data to be inserted will be the first data to be removed.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
A. FIFO: First In First Out
   LIFO: Last In First Out

what is the order of complexity?
A. This means that it is a certain mathematical expression of the size of the input, and the algorithm finishes
between two factors of it. Generally, the smaller the order of complexity of the program's underlying algorithm, the
faster it will run and the better it will scale as the input gets larger.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
what is tree in data structure?
what is graph in data structure?
what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
How HashMap works in java?
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
What is difference between an array and a linked list?
What is DFS and BFS?
What is Recursion?
What are linear and non linear data Structures?
What is Big-(O)-notation?
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


